# CS350-Emerging-Sys-Arch-Tech

Steven Mathias

The two project artifacts that I chose to highlight for this class were the Python code project Milestone 3, and the the python code from the final project. For Milestone 3, the goal was to implement the addition of a blue light with the already existing red light. Then, add the correct python code to display two messages on the LCD screen while simultaneously reflecting the message as morse code represented by the light flashing. A button was also added to switch between messages (ie. lights). For both of these projects, I chose them because I believe I did a good job with overcoming challenges. This course in general served as more difficult than most that I have taken and required a lot of trial and error, as well as taking components apart and starting fresh. By the time I began working on the final project, I had acquired several skills from my experience on previous assignments that were extremely helpful in accomplishing the thermostat. For example, I created a routine at the beginning of each assignment where I would test all the previous methods that had been added to the breadboard. I would start by making sure I had a good connection, then testing both red and blue lights would turn on with GPIO-18-ON/OFF and GPIO-23-ON/OFF, then I would run the morse code project and try different messages, and finally added multiple buttons and tested each component to ensure I was ready to make it work as a thermostat. 
I can improve in the area of Python code. A lot of the methods we used in Python were new to me and I had not yet had experience with hardware and software communication to this degree. My overall understanding of python methods in this area can be greatly improved. Fortunately, this course provided several resources directly for python programming that conistsed of the methods with great explanations and examples that I have saved in a designated bookmark folder to refer back to in the future. The most important skills from this project that will benefit me on future projects is being able to debug and troubleshoot a large set of components to find where there is an error. One of the things that I found in my research for one of the assignments was a link between the hardware and python that would display a specific message in the command prompt, if you saw this message, it meant that the program was communicating to the breadboard but nothing was being returned. This was very important as it helped me narrow the field of potential origin of the error. It is skills like this that will help me to become a better programmer and problem-solver. In python, I made sure to allow enough space and comments to make it easy to refer back to in the future if I want to work on this again. Furthermore, someone else should have an easy time opening up the project and understanding how each component works. Furthermore, the documentation of taking pictures and videos helped me to stay organized and make each assignment an iterative process where I could easily go back to a "default" stage where I know the project was working if I couldn't find the error. 
